================

# Using target capture to address conservation challenges: population-level tracking of a globally-traded herbal medicine

<br>

<center>

[**Pre-print available
here**](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/744318v2)

</center>

<br> \#\# Authors **Vincent Manzanilla**, Irene Teixidor-Toneu, Gary J.
Martin, Peter M. Hollingsworth, Hugo J. de Boer, Anneleen Kool

## Abstract

The promotion of responsible and sustainable trade in biological
resources is widely proposed as one solution to mitigate currently high
levels of global biodiversity loss. Various molecular identification
methods have been proposed as appropriate tools for monitoring global
supply chains of commercialized animals and plants. We demonstrate the
efficacy of target capture genomic barcoding in identifying and
establishing the geographic origin of samples traded as *Anacyclus
pyrethrum*, a medicinal plant assessed as globally vulnerable in the
IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Samples collected from national and
international supply chains were identified through target capture
sequencing of 443 low-copy nuclear makers and compared to results
derived from genome skimming of plastome, standard plastid barcoding
regions and ITS. Both target capture and genome skimming provided
approximately 3.4 million reads per sample, but target capture largely
outperformed standard plant DNA barcodes and entire plastid genome
sequences. Despite the difficulty of distinguishing among closely
related species and infraspecific taxa of *Anacyclus* using conventional
taxonomic methods, we succeeded in identifying 89 of 110 analysed
samples to subspecies level without ambiguity through target capture. Of
the remaining samples, we determined that eleven contained plant
material from other genera and families and ten were unidentifiable
regardless of the method used. Furthermore, we were able to discern the
geographical origin of Anacyclus samples collected in Moroccan, Indian
and Sri Lankan markets, differentiating between plant materials
originally harvested from diverse populations in Algeria and Morocco.
With a recent drop in the cost of analysing samples, target capture
offers the potential to routinely identify commercialized plant species
and determine their geographic origin. It promises to play an important
role in monitoring and regulation of plant species in trade, supporting
biodiversity conservation efforts, and in ensuring that plant products
are unadulterated, contributing to consumer protection.

Keywords: *Anacyclus*, DNA barcoding, genomic barcoding, international
trade, supply chain, target capture

<br>

<center>

![trade
routes](https://github.com/vincentmanz/scientific_articles/blob/main/Global_trade_Anacyclus/Figure%203-6/Figure%206%20-%20Origin%20of%20the%20samples%204%20cases.png)
*Figure: Trade routes of Anacyclus.*

</center>

<br>

<center>

![trade
routes](https://github.com/vincentmanz/scientific_articles/blob/main/Global_trade_Anacyclus/Figure%202/Box%20plot%20Number%20of%20reads%20per%20samples.png)
*Figure: Marker coverage.*

</center>

## GitHub Documents

This is an R Markdown format used for publishing markdown documents to
GitHub. When you click the **Knit** button all R code chunks are run and
a markdown file (.md) suitable for publishing to GitHub is generated.

## Including Code

You can include R code in the document as follows:

``` r
summary(cars)
```

    ##      speed           dist       
    ##  Min.   : 4.0   Min.   :  2.00  
    ##  1st Qu.:12.0   1st Qu.: 26.00  
    ##  Median :15.0   Median : 36.00  
    ##  Mean   :15.4   Mean   : 42.98  
    ##  3rd Qu.:19.0   3rd Qu.: 56.00  
    ##  Max.   :25.0   Max.   :120.00

## Including Plots

You can also embed plots, for example:

![](README_files/figure-gfm/pressure-1.png)<!-- -->

Note that the `echo = FALSE` parameter was added to the code chunk to
prevent printing of the R code that generated the plot.
